body performers personal training and I
think this is gonna be my last deadlift
variation that I'm gonna film and I'll
be moving on to some other exercises and
exercise variations so this is deadlifts
from blocks so we've done Ted lists from
the deficit where you're standing on the
blocks to raise you up so that the bar
is actually lower than it normally would
be so this is essentially the opposite
where I've set the barbell up on some
some platform so it's about four inches
up off the ground and that puts the bar
at about mid Shin level or just below
the knee level as opposed to if you're
in the bottom position regular bottom
position it puts you both mid shin or
just slightly below mid-shin so you can
use this variation with people that are
maybe just starting to learn the
deadlift and they're having flexibility
issues and they can't get themselves
down into the proper position when they
try and get down to the to the bar and
if they're not flexible enough in the
hamstrings and stuff and then they'll
start to round as they try and get down
into that position so by bringing the
bar up a little bit higher for them to
get them started off you can you can get
them pulling from a proper position and
then as you increase their strength and
flexibility you can get them down to the
proper position it usually doesn't take
very long to to do that progression and
so that would be for somebody that's
just starting out or has limited
mobility for whatever reason coming back
from an injury whatever whatever have
you use whatever tools you need at the
time some of that's trying to build
strength a lot of people would have the
misconception because this is up higher
off the ground that it's actually going
to be easier and for some people it will
be they'll be able to pull more weight
from this position but there's going to
be a lot of people too that they find
they can pull less from this position
because when the bar is started on the
ground where it normally is your legs
are much more bent and that allows you
to get
more leg drive off of the floor and then
continue that momentum through so if
someone is a good fast puller off the
floor and they can drive hard with their
legs they can get through that kind of
mid sticking point that's right around
the knee region other people if they are
not particularly fast off the floor or
they don't push as hard as they could
with their legs they're going to find
when they get into into that position
that they're not as strong through the
middle there either so when you take
when you pick the bar off the floor like
this to put it up on the blocks and then
they try and pull it well their leg
drive momentum has basically been taken
away so instead of having the bar down
here and being able to drive with the
legs more now it's here so your legs are
much more much straight or right off the
very start so the lower back and the and
the hips take a lot more of the strain
so if someone gets to this position and
lifts it up on the blocks like this and
realizes that they're a lot weaker in
this position well that's a weak point a
weak link in their chain that they can
work on so they could strengthen up this
part of the lift and they're going to
get a good carry over to pulling off the
floor if this is if this is a weak link
in their chain so it might be something
worthwhile giving a try if you're a
beginner and you need that extra bit of
mobility work on that and get yourself
down to the floor if you're someone
that's been doing deadlifts for a while
maybe you come to a little bit of a
plateau you're looking for something to
push you through have you set it up like
this like try the ones where you're
pulling from a deficit where you're
standing on the block see if that see
how your strength level is there then
get the the bar up a little bit see how
your strength level is there you might
find that you're weaker in that position
than you think so use all the tools that
you can to to get the most of every lift
that you can so I hope this helps you
out I'll talk to you soon